---
layout: post
title: The Goldman Sachs Interview Experience
---


After a number of attempts to score this interview, I finally got the Goldman Sachs call when I was probably not even expecting to get one. So a couple of days before the New Year, I got a call from their HCM office that they have an opening and would like to try me. At that point, I was all but done with the applications process, so I thought why the heck not. I was planning to restart my interview prep after applications anyways. The call just pushed the schedule forward.

I was first asked to give a code-pair round. Now rounds like these are held on screen sharing platforms. Only this time, the platform also had a compiler, so I had to run the code for cases as well. Two questions were to be solved in one hour. Now it could have been tricky to completely run two questions in an hour. However, questions turned out to be pretty easy. I wrote code in a great time and as able to test them on interviewer's behest.


I was very sure of this next round. Then the call came, and I suddenly realized that I only had like a week for the preparation of this and I was actually at home driving around with Mom. Came back to my apartment and prepared as best as I could. Now unlike the previous code pair round where there were brief greetings and then problem-solving, this was a complete interview with substantial dialogue and a wide variety of questions and discussions. I hadn't given those in months. Also, unlike other organizations, a GS panel has more than one interviewer. This, I think is actually very good for interviewee as it adds more perspective to the interview. This round was a balanced one. After a customary introduction, I was asked about OOPS. Now I prepped for this and was able to give a fairly general introduction. This was followed by a system design question on which I fumbled quite a bit but was still able to put up some points. I kicked myself later for this, as this was a fairly principled based question. Then I got a puzzle, which I solved. Then finally an algorithmic question. It took some time to get the trick. Was honestly nervous for a moment. Made it in okayish complexity. Got another puzzle, made it though there was some communication gap at the end, it was clear I had solved it. After a week, I hit up the HR asking the result. She confirmed that I had cleared up the round and that she would confirm the date and stuff for further process. Pure Elation. I had never been called up for onsite interviews. I was being now.


So cutting all the crap of booking tickets and taking flights and everything, now I am in Bangalore. The strange industrial air of Bangalore. Bangalore is multicultural the way, New York and San Francisco are. Difference? Just that here people are various sub-Indian ethnicities instead of different countries. One by-product of this interview was being able to meet friends living in Bangalore. Stayed with one overnight who was also a GS employee. Then in the morning, traveled with him to his office. Funny how life works out, three of my closest friends not only worked for the very company, they also worked in the same fookin building. With the same friend, had the breakfast of probably the tastiest dosas I ever had in the common cafeteria of the Embassy Golf Links Business Park. With a filled belly, I knew it was time to go to war. Another interesting setting here was that the interview process was dictated solely by the concerned departments and not the HCM. I told them about my 9.30 evening flight. Which means knowing Bangalore traffic, I had to leave office at almost 6.30.

The interviews started at 11.00 AM. First round is probably the hardest to remember. I can't even remember the interviewers of that round. On focusing hard enough, I am able to gather an outline on the topics which were asked. So it started like every other round with a brief discussion about my current work, and projects. This round briefed on one of my described projects. Had a discussion based on that for quite some time. Then I remember being given a pretty basic algorithmic question. Was nice to warm up like that. Then another not so tough question was thrown. And then voila first round was over like that. Time for Round 2! This time two slightly more senior people(I am guessing VPs) arrived. It started the same as the previous one, with a discussion of a project at Paytm and then taking it forward to build another system. This round turned out to be a bit of a stumper. I was asked about storing a certain type of data which was obtained from a database call and how would that be transferred over different microservices. I really had no freaking clue about this. In fact, to fully get this, I was him to repeat the question several times. Finally, he gave up and moved on. He was visibly disappointed with how the things had unfolded here. The other guy took pity on me and asked me to design an LRU cache. I pretended to think and iteratively reach at a solution. I mean everyone fucking knows how to design a fucking LRU cache or what the F are you doing at the interview in the first place. This was still a net negative. I mean they had to know everyone knows how to design an LRU, right?. It seems like they were done too. Because there were 10 minutes left for the slot, they decided to go with another question. This question was pretty atypical and tricky. And I did not have more than 10 minutes to think of a solution. Great, huh. I presented an obvious O(N*M) solution. Yeah, it was a matrix question. They laughed on the inside and reminded me they expected at least an O(N+M) solution. I persisted and focussed a lot more than what I was already doing. And BAMMM!!!! after a little hint I got it. How to eliminate solutions and optimize. Heck, I optimized it even more than they expected. Finally, I gave them an O(log(N*M)) solution. All under 10 mins. This might have been an inflection point for the interview. It's not like the first interview was bad, but now at least I had something to show for this second round.



And just like that it was 1 pm. Time for lunch. Had lunch at their office cafeteria, which was surprisingly nothing fancy at all. Ate simple food while chatting up with the same pal who I stayed with. After not much adieu, began Round 3. This didn't start differently than previous rounds. I told them about my current work. I don't remember if I was asked an algo question in this round. This was predictable. See if you have been a part of an interviewing comittee, which I had been at Paytm, you understand how these things work. Your strengths and weaknesses are indentified and focus is put on later to gauge the extent of the percieved flaw. I was being tested more on system design in this round. I found it a bit difficult initially, but then kinda settled in. Finally, I was able to 'settle' on a solution with my interviewers, it was round where, fair to say, I agreed with some of their points and they agreed with some of my points as well. Then they finally pushed to algorithms. I don't remember what exactly the question was, or even how hard it was. Whatever it was, I did not encounter anything new and I solved it. Obviously, this round left me fairly confident as well. Now came a very weird Round 4. I am guessing this round was interviewed by a testing panel. At this point, I am guessing they were covering all the bases or something of that sort. Not only was it a bit pointless, it was extremely tiring. More like all the travel from the last day's flight and the previous interview kinda unravelled. I spent the round disengaged and tries as best to answer everything they were throwing at me as I could. Even the interviewers seemed like they didn't know what they expected here. I guess this would have been a sort of no win no loss kinda interwiew. Now rolled Round 5. This was the round where you get interviewed by Managers or Directors or whatever senior people are incharge of the process. My fatigue had found probably the worst round to show up. If only this was the previous round, I would have been well engaged and fatigue would have been delayed. But anyways, this was the hand I had been dealt with. I summoned all my strength and persevered. The strucutre of this round was roughly the same as Round 3. A good system design discussion followed by an algo problem. I think I did what they asked, tried to do it well enough. They asked another algo question after the first one. This didn't shake me either, I gave the solution for it. After this, they mostly explained what role they played in the division, how it was all strucutured and what was the function of their teams. I also made it a point to ask them about their past experiences. They told me a lot, but because I was so tired, I grasped very little. Now I was at a point when I was expecting an end of the process. It was 5pm, one hour before the time I had to run and this was sort of the managerial round. What more were they gonna conduct, right? WRONG. That is when one of the interviewers said and I quote, "It's good, we know you have a flight, know you only have two more rounds left." I smiled, but in my head I screamed, "Are you fucking kidding me????" 


Yeah, Round 6 started immediately as I had a flight at 6. Now this round was conducted by Strats team of the same unit whose Tech team I was interviewing for. This round wasn't different either. But instead of system design, they disussed databases and the need to design them and stuff. I understood what was going on. I was being interviewed by teams that I might have to work with would I be selected in the process. Nice proccess. The guys conducting were almost my age, a couple of years more experienced. This also culminated after an algo question. This lasted 45 minutes. After this was another round which was supposed to last like 15-20 minutes. I correctly guessed that this was not going to be you normal tech round. Also, unlike previous rounds this wasn't conducted by a panel, but a single interviewer. It was mostly a chat, where the dude started by telling a lot about what his team did. There was a lot of financial policy talk and stuff. Now I like finance, I am a curious guy and I like knowing fundamentals about things that run the real world, so I listened intently. For that reason and also that I felt like this guy was probably a member of the team I was being recruited for and would probably sent to conduct a behavorial round to see how well I fit in the environment and culture. After the overall tedious process, this round went pretty fucking well as after a tiresome process, I unloaded some good light-hearted conversation. The guy also helped me book a cab for the airport and we discussed how fucking crass it is to travel in Bangalore traffic. Well then the interview was over, I called my friend and rushed out the building. We had some good talk in 10 odd minutes waiting for elevator and coming down to the office porch. We took a picture and then it was all fairwell. After that I sat back in the cab and braced for an hour long journey to the airport. On reflecting, I didn't know what the result of the interview was going to be but it was a great freaking process and I am pretty fucking satisfied about how the events unfurled.
